Bauchibred

medium

# Loss of ECO due to Unauthorized Token Burning via `burners` Role



## Summary

Any addresses with the `burners` role can burn tokens from arbitrary addresses. This unauthorized token burning poses a significant security risk, as it can result in users losing their tokens, leading to a loss of trust in the protocol.

Not to get this confused this with a whole disagreement with the roles idea, this vulnerability differs from the implementation of the `minters` role, as minting tokens typically results in tokens being sent to users. However, unauthorized burning can have detrimental consequences, causing users to discover that their tokens have been unexpectedly burned, leading to a loss of trust in the protocol.

## Vulnerability Detail

See Impact +
The vulnerability lies in the `burn` function and the associated `onlyBurnerRoleOrSelf` modifier. The function allows any address with the `burners` role to burn tokens from any address, even if it is not their own. This lack of proper authorization can be exploited by malicious or compromised addresses with the `burners` role.
Key to note that this is a deviation from the standard behavior, where burning tokens typically only affects the sender, as this heavily introduces the potential for users to lose their tokens without their consent.

Take a look at [burn()](https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2023-05-ecoprotocol/blob/b440f89234b806f672b9e9ad24cf70c409964db5/op-eco/contracts/token/L2ECO.sol#L234-L245)

```solidity
function burn(address _from, uint256 _amount)
    external
    onlyBurnerRoleOrSelf(_from)
{
    _burn(_from, _amount);
    emit Burn(_from, _amount);
}
```

## Impact

The vulnerability poses a serious risk of unauthorized token burning. An address with the `burners` role can abuse this privilege and burn tokens belonging to other users without proper authorization. This can result in loss of user funds and a breach of trust in the token ecosystem.

## Code Snippet

[burn()](https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2023-05-ecoprotocol/blob/b440f89234b806f672b9e9ad24cf70c409964db5/op-eco/contracts/token/L2ECO.sol#L234-L245)

## Tool used

Manual Audit

## Recommendation

To mitigate the vulnerability, it is recommended to implement the following changes:

1. Consider removing the `burners` role.
2. Modify the `burn` function to allow token burning only from the sender's own address.
3. You could also update the `burn` function to utilize the `_msgSender()` function from the `EIP712Upgradeable` contract, ensuring that only the actual sender of the transaction can burn their tokens.

The modified `burn` function would look like this:

```solidity
function burn(uint256 _amount) external override {
    _burn(_msgSender(), _amount);
    emit Burn(_msgSender(), _amount);
}
```

These changes will restrict the burning functionality to the sender's own tokens and prevent unauthorized token burning by addresses with the `burners` role.
