XDZIBEC

medium

# XDZIBEC-Division-by-Zero Vulnerability in L2ECOBridge Contract

## Summary

The vulnerability in the `finalizeDeposit` function, the` _amount` variable is divided by` inflationMultiplier` without checking if `inflationMultiplier` is non-zero, If `inflationMultiplier` is set to zero, a division-by-zero error will occur, leading to an exception and potential transaction failure, if this is exploit by an attacker  disrupt the functionality of the contract and potentially cause financial loss or other undesired behavior,it is crucial to include a validation check to ensure that `inflationMultiplier` is non-zero before performing the division operation. By adding this check, you can prevent division-by-zero errors and mitigate the associated risks.

## Vulnerability Detail

```solidity
function finalizeDeposit(
        address _l1Token,
        address _l2Token,
        address _from,
        address _to,
        uint256 _amount,
        bytes calldata _data
    )
        external
        virtual
        onlyFromCrossDomainAccount(l1TokenBridge)
        isL1EcoToken(_l1Token)
        isL2EcoToken(_l2Token)
    {
        // When a deposit is finalized, we convert the transferred gons to ECO using the current
        // inflation multiplier, then we credit the account on L2 with the same amount of tokens.
        _amount = _amount / inflationMultiplier;
        L2ECO(_l2Token).mint(_to, _amount);
        emit DepositFinalized(_l1Token, _l2Token, _from, _to, _amount, _data);
    }

    /**
     * @inheritdoc IL2ECOBridge
     */

```
The vulnerability related to the` finalizeDeposit` function. In this function, the amount transferred from `L1` is divided by the  `inflationMultiplier` before minting tokens on `L2`. However, it seems that the division is performed without any checks, which could lead to a division-by-zero error if the `inflationMultiplier` is set to zero.
In the `finalizeDeposit `function arises from the division operation performed on the `_amount` variable without proper validation of the `inflationMultiplier` value. the relevant code:

```solidity
_amount = _amount / inflationMultiplier;
L2ECO(_l2Token).mint(_to, _amount);
```
In this code snippet,` _amount` is divided by `inflationMultiplier` without verifying if `inflationMultiplier `is non-zero. If` inflationMultiplier` happens to be set to zero, a division-by-zero error will occur, resulting in an exception and potentially causing the transaction to fail.
This vulnerability, it is crucial to  mitigate, add a validation check to ensure that the `inflationMultiplier` is non-zero before performing the division.
An example:

```solidity
require(inflationMultiplier != 0, "L2ECOBridge: inflation multiplier is zero");
_amount = _amount / inflationMultiplier;
L2ECO(_l2Token).mint(_to, _amount);
```
By including this check, the code will throw an exception and revert the transaction if the `inflationMultiplier` is zero, preventing any division-by-zero errors.

## Impact

-An attacker could intentionally trigger the division-by-zero condition, causing the contract to revert or become stuck in an invalid state. This can disrupt the normal functioning of the bridge and prevent legitimate transactions from being processed.
-Exploiting the vulnerability might allow an attacker to manipulate the upgrade process of the ECO token implementation or the bridge itself. This could lead to unauthorized upgrades or malicious code being introduced, compromising the security and trustworthiness of the system.
-The existence of a critical vulnerability can undermine confidence in the L2ECOBridge contract and the overall ecosystem. It may lead to reputational damage for the project and impact user adoption and participation.

## Code Snippet

https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2023-05-ecoprotocol/blob/main/op-eco/contracts/bridge/L2ECOBridge.sol#L168C8
https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2023-05-ecoprotocol/blob/main/op-eco/contracts/bridge/L2ECOBridge.sol#L145C1-L168C8

## Tool used

Manual Review

## Recommendation

- checks to ensure that the values used in calculations, particularly those involving division operations, are within acceptable ranges and do not result in division by zero. Validate the inflation multiplier and other relevant variables before performing calculations to prevent potential issues
- handle exceptional cases, such as division by zero. Instead of reverting the entire transaction, consider using error codes or custom exceptions to provide informative error messages and gracefully handle invalid operations.

