XDZIBEC

medium

# XDZIBEC-Cross-Domain Account Authentication Bypass

## Summary

The vulnerability arises from disabling Slither's` reentrancy` checks in the `sendCrossDomainMessage` function. 
By bypassing these checks, the contract becomes susceptible to` reentrancy` attacks.
Reentrancy attacks occur when an external contract maliciously calls back into the vulnerable contract before the initial invocation completes, potentially leading to unintended behavior and manipulation of the contract's state 

## Vulnerability Detail

```solidity 
function sendCrossDomainMessage(
        address _crossDomainTarget,
        uint32 _gasLimit,
        bytes memory _message
    ) internal {
        // slither-disable-next-line reentrancy-events, reentrancy-benign
        getCrossDomainMessenger().sendMessage(
            _crossDomainTarget,
            _message,
            _gasLimit
        );
    }
}
```
In the `sendCrossDomainMessage` function, the line:

```solidity
getCrossDomainMessenger().sendMessage(
    _crossDomainTarget,
    _message,
    _gasLimit
);
```
The vulnerability lies in the fact that the contract is disabling Slither's `reentrancy` checks with the comment `// slither-disable-next-
line reentrancy-events`, `reentrancy-benign`, comment disables Slither's `reentrancy` checks. While the intention may have been to bypass false positives, it also disables legitimate `reentrancy `checks, leaving the contract vulnerable to potential attacks.
To fix the vulnerability, we need to reintroduce `reentrancy` protection. 

- Here's an an example of the code that incorporates the necessary safeguards:

```solidity
bool private locked;

function sendCrossDomainMessage(
    address _crossDomainTarget,
    uint32 _gasLimit,
    bytes memory _message
) internal {
    require(!locked, "Reentrancy protection");

    locked = true;
    getCrossDomainMessenger().sendMessage(
        _crossDomainTarget,
        _message,
        _gasLimit
    );
    locked = false;
}
```
In the fixed code,a boolean variable locked to track the `reentrancy `status. Before executing the `sendMessage` function, we use a require statement to ensure that `reentrancy` is not allowed. If locked is true, indicating an ongoing execution, the require statement will throw an exception, preventing any `reentrancy` attempt.
By implementing this check, we mitigate the risk of `reentrancy` attacks. It ensures that the `sendCrossDomainMessage` function can only be called once and not reentered until the execution is complete. 
This protects the contract's state integrity and prevents potential manipulations
## Impact

-  The vulnerability could allow attackers to gain unauthorized access to sensitive data, systems, or functionalities. This could lead to data breaches, unauthorized transactions, or manipulation of critical resources.
-  the vulnerability could result in financial losses for individuals or organizations. Attackers might exploit the vulnerability to steal funds, conduct fraudulent activities, or disrupt financial systems.
-  can be exploited to disrupt the availability or functioning of services, leading to service outages, system crashes, or unresponsive applications. This can have a negative impact on user experience, productivity, and business operations.
-  Attackers may exploit the vulnerability to manipulate or destroy data, causing irreparable damage to individuals or organizations. This can result in data loss, compromised integrity, and disrupted operations.

## Code Snippet

- https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2023-05-ecoprotocol/blob/main/op-eco/contracts/bridge/CrossDomainEnabledUpgradeable.sol#LL77C5

- https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2023-05-ecoprotocol/blob/main/op-eco/contracts/bridge/CrossDomainEnabledUpgradeable.sol#L77C5-L89C2 

## Tool used

Manual Review

## Recommendation

- Remove the comment and reinstate the` reentrancy` checks. Slither's `reentrancy` checks are designed to identify potential` reentrancy `vulnerabilities and provide an additional layer of protection. By keeping these checks enabled, you can ensure that the contract is more resilient against `reentrancy` attacks
- To mitigate this vulnerability, it is recommended to perform a thorough security audit and consider implementing best practices for handling `reentrancy`, such as using the `Checks-Effects-Interactions` pattern and carefully managing state changes and external contract interactions.