Sabit

high

# The mint function can't mint

## Summary
The mint function in L2ECO can't mint and not even callable by the minter role addresses - _l2Bridge.

## Vulnerability Detail
The mint function in L2ECO.sol will always throw an error (L2ECO: not authorized to mint) because of the onlyMinterRole modifier. 

In the onlyMinterRole modifier, "msg.sender" is written inside "minters" instead of "_l2Bridge". "_l2Bridge" sets "minters" to true. The onlyMinterRole modifier is set to false by default. The reason "minters" in the modifier should have "_l2Bridge" and not "msg.sender". 

As it stands, no address can pass the check so far minters remain false in the mapping. 

## Impact
With the mint function having the onlyMinterRole modifier condition set to false, no address can mint - even not callable by the initialized minter role addresses (_l2Bridge). 

## Code Snippet

[ function mint(address _to, uint256 _amount) external onlyMinterRole {
        _mint(_to, _amount);
        emit Mint(_to, _amount);
    }](https://github.com/eco-association/op-eco/blob/39f205fb46eea3df770f0119a890ffdc1ac8f382/contracts/token/L2ECO.sol#L229)

[ /**
     * @dev Mapping storing contracts able to mint tokens
     */
    mapping(address => bool) public minters;](https://github.com/eco-association/op-eco/blob/39f205fb46eea3df770f0119a890ffdc1ac8f382/contracts/token/L2ECO.sol#L96)

[modifier onlyMinterRole() {
        require(minters[msg.sender], "L2ECO: not authorized to mint");
        _;
    }
](https://github.com/eco-association/op-eco/blob/39f205fb46eea3df770f0119a890ffdc1ac8f382/contracts/token/L2ECO.sol#L96)

https://github.com/eco-association/op-eco/blob/39f205fb46eea3df770f0119a890ffdc1ac8f382/contracts/token/L2ECO.sol#L146

## Tool used
Manual Review

## Recommendation
Pass the initialialized "_l2Bridge" to minters in the onlyMinterRole modifier like so: 
modifier onlyMinterRole() {
    require(minters[_l2Bridge], "L2ECO: not authorized to mint");
    _;
}

