ravikiran.web3

medium

# Updating the TokenRoleAdmin in L2ECO should have validations

## Summary
TokenRoleAdmin in L2ECO is a crucial role and understand it is trusted. But, there is a potential for human error and since such error is irrecoverable, it is warranted to take a defensive approach.

The updateTokenRoleAdmin accepts an address which could be zero address and once assigned to storage variable will permanently impact the working of the contract.
So, while assuming that current admin will act responsibily,  a preventive logic to not set address(0x0) will help.

## Vulnerability Detail
Loosing Admin role with invalid address permanently removes the ability to manage minters, burners and rebasers and hence critical role should have more checks.

## Impact
Once lost, cannot add or remove minters, burners and rebasers.

## Code Snippet
https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2023-05-ecoprotocol/blob/main/op-eco/contracts/token/L2ECO.sol#L220-L222

```solidity
 function updateTokenRoleAdmin(address _newAdmin) public onlyTokenRoleAdmin {
        tokenRoleAdmin = _newAdmin;
    }
```

## Tool used

Manual Review

## Recommendation


1) Validate for non zero atleast.

```solidity
 function updateTokenRoleAdmin(address _newAdmin) public onlyTokenRoleAdmin {
       require(_newAdmin!=address(0x0),"Invalid Address");
        tokenRoleAdmin = _newAdmin;
    }
```

2) Make this update a two step process:
  a) add a state variable as newAdminToUpdate
  b) in the updateTokenRoleAdmin, instead of updating the tokenRoleAdmin, update newAdminToUpdate.
  c)  current admin can now view the newAdminToUpdate and also has the role as Admin,
  d) add appoveNewAdmin function, that set the tokenRoleAdmin with new value and reset the newAdminToUpdate to address(0x0)

```solidity
  newAdminToUpdate = address(0x0);


  function updateTokenRoleAdmin(address _newAdmin) public onlyTokenRoleAdmin {
       require(_newAdmin!=address(0x0),"Invalid Address");
        newAdminToUpdate = _newAdmin;
   }

 function appoveNewAdmin() public onlyTokenRoleAdmin {
    require(newAdminToUpdate!=address(0x0),"Invalid Address"); // newAdmin should not be zero address
    tokenRoleAdmin = newAdminToUpdate;
    newAdminToUpdate = address(0x0);
 }

```
 
   
