Sabit

high

# The modifier in the burn function doesn't work

## Summary
The burn function uses the onlyBurnerRoleOrSelf modifier to check who can burn tokens. However, the modifier is not well written. Any external contract deployed using the original contract deployed address or even another contract address can call the burn function and burn all the tokens of an address.

## Vulnerability Detail
According to the onlyBurnerRoleOrSelf modifier, before you can burn tokens, you must either be the allowed message sender or allowed burner. The only allowed burner is "_l2Bridge" initialized in the initialize function. However, "_l2Bridge" isn't passed in "burners" in the onlyBurnerRoleOrSelf modifier.

What this means is that anyone who calls the burn function can burn tokens. The second leg of the modifier condition is that msg.sender is burners. But looking at the mapping where burners is defined, burners is set to false by default. "_l2Bridge" that sets it to true isn't passed inside it. This means that no address or msg.sender can pass the second condition in the modifier. 

But the first condition in the modifier can be passed by any msg.sender - it is free to all.

So, any msg.sender will pass the first condition of the modifier and can burn tokens.

More so, there shouldn't be a parameter passed inside the modifier in the burn function. This is because a modifier will usually be executed before the function body. Passing a parameter to a modifier inside a function will not follow the checks-effects-interactions pattern.

## Impact
An attacker can burn all the tokens in an address. 

## Code Snippet

https://github.com/eco-association/op-eco/blob/39f205fb46eea3df770f0119a890ffdc1ac8f382/contracts/token/L2ECO.sol#L54

https://github.com/eco-association/op-eco/blob/39f205fb46eea3df770f0119a890ffdc1ac8f382/contracts/token/L2ECO.sol#L106

https://github.com/eco-association/op-eco/blob/39f205fb46eea3df770f0119a890ffdc1ac8f382/contracts/token/L2ECO.sol#L239

https://github.com/eco-association/op-eco/blob/39f205fb46eea3df770f0119a890ffdc1ac8f382/contracts/token/L2ECO.sol#L146
## Tool used

Manual Review

## Recommendation
Implement a mechanism to grant burning permissions to specific addresses before using the onlyBurnerRoleOrSelf modifier. Or pass "_l2Bridge" to "burners" in the onlyBurnerRoleOrSelf modifier. And also follow the checks-effects-interactions pattern.
