Dug

medium

# The inflation multiplier is only validated on L2, potentially leaving the bridges out of sync

## Summary

Missing inflation multiplier validation on the L1 bridge can cause a mismatch in inflation rates between L1 and L2.

## Vulnerability Detail

It is important for the inflation multiplier to be the same on both L1 and L2 chains. If the inflation multiplier is different, then arbitrage opportunities will exist between the two chains.

The `rebase()` function on the L1 bridge updates it's own inflation multiplier, then sends a message the the L2 bridge to update the multiplier on the L2 chain, keeping them in sync. 

```solidity
    function rebase(uint32 _l2Gas) external {
        inflationMultiplier = IECO(l1Eco).getPastLinearInflation(block.number);

        bytes memory message = abi.encodeWithSelector(IL2ECOBridge.rebase.selector, inflationMultiplier);

        sendCrossDomainMessage(l2TokenBridge, _l2Gas, message);
    }
```

The issue is that the `rebase()` function does additional validation of the inflation multiplier via a `validRebaseMultiplier` modifier. Which can potentially cause a revert.

```solidity
    function rebase(uint256 _inflationMultiplier)
        external
        virtual
        onlyFromCrossDomainAccount(l1TokenBridge)
        validRebaseMultiplier(_inflationMultiplier)
    {
        inflationMultiplier = _inflationMultiplier;
        l2Eco.rebase(_inflationMultiplier);
        emit RebaseInitiated(_inflationMultiplier);
    }
```

## Impact

In the situation where the L2 rebase reverts, the two chains will then have different inflation multipliers which will cause arbitrage opportunities between the two chains.

While the the inflation multiplier generally should not be set to `0`, as transactions will then revert, it becomes especially problematic if it only happens on one chain and not the other as a loss of funds can occur.

## Code Snippet

https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2023-05-ecoprotocol/blob/main/op-eco/contracts/bridge/L1ECOBridge.sol#L296-L307

https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2023-05-ecoprotocol/blob/main/op-eco/contracts/bridge/L2ECOBridge.sol#L169-L178

https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2023-05-ecoprotocol/blob/main/op-eco/contracts/bridge/L2ECOBridge.sol#L81-L87

## Tool used

Manual Review

## Recommendation

Include the `validRebaseMultiplier` modifier in the `rebase()` function on the L1 bridge.