toshii

medium

# Potential loss of funds when transferring tokens from L2 to L1 due to two-step `inflationMultiplier` update

## Summary

Since the update of the inflation multiplier for the base L1 ECO token is a separate call from updating the `inflationMultiplier` on the L1ECOBridge, this can result in an outdated `inflationMultiplier` which results in lost funds for users sending tokens from L2 to L1

## Vulnerability Detail

The inflation multiplier variable is a key component for specifying the outstanding supply of ECO tokens, and is a value which can change over time, being set by users with select privileges. An issue arises however, due to the fact that the call to update the inflation multiplier on the L1 ECO token contract does not automatically update the stored `inflationMultiplier` value on the L1ECOBridge contract. Rather, a separate call to the `rebase` function must be done. This is an issue because this value is referenced both in the `finalizeERC20Withdrawal` and `_initiateERC20Deposit` functions, as in both these calls the `inflationMultiplier` can be wrong/outdated.

The issue arises when there has been a change to the inflation multiplier in the ECO L1 token, but the `rebase` function has not yet been called. In this example, lets say a user is transferring 10_000 ECO from L2 to L1. Let's also assume that the old inflation multiplier value is 100, while the new value is 50:
1. In the `_initiateWithdrawal` in the L2ECOBridge contract, user has specified `_amount`=100. `_amount = _amount * inflationMultiplier;` results in `_amount`=10_000.
2. The `finalizeERC20Withdrawal` function is called on the L1ECOBridge contract, where `uint256 _amount = _gonsAmount / inflationMultiplier;`. Since the `inflationMultiplier` value is outdated and still 100, `_amount`= 100. 
3. This function then continues and calls `transfer` on the L1 ECO token, where the amount transferred to the user is equal to amount * inflationRate. In this case, it's 100 * 50 = 5_000, which is 50% less then they should have. Therefore the user has lost tokens simply by transferring between chains.

Note that this is also an issue if the `inflationMultiplier` increases, minting the user more tokens then they should be receiving.

## Impact

A user can receive an incorrect amount of tokens when transferring ECO from L2 to L1, leading to a loss of funds for a user (or the user will receive an improperly larger amount of funds)

## Code Snippet

Referenced lines of code:
https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2023-05-ecoprotocol/blob/main/op-eco/contracts/bridge/L1ECOBridge.sol#L296-L307
https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2023-05-ecoprotocol/blob/main/op-eco/contracts/bridge/L1ECOBridge.sol#L244

## Tool used

Manual Review

## Recommendation

Before referencing the `inflationMultiplier` variable, ensure that it is up to date. In the `finalizeERC20Withdrawal` function, the update would be:
```solidity
inflationMultiplier = IECO(l1Eco).getPastLinearInflation(
    block.number
);
uint256 _amount = _gonsAmount / inflationMultiplier;
```