0xDjango

high

# Attacker can overwrite the L2 `inflationMultiplier` with previous values

## Summary
The `inflationMultiplier` variable in `L2ECOBridge.sol` is updated by calling the `rebase()` function in `L1ECOBridge.sol`. The `getPastLinearInflation()` function of the L1 ECO token is called to determine the current `inflationMultiplier`, and a cross domain message is initiated via `sendCrossDomainMessage(l2TokenBridge, _l2Gas, message);`

The issue lies in the fact that anyone can call this function with an `_l2Gas` parameter value that is unexecutable. This will cause the message to be added to the execution queue with a specific inflation multiplier, but it will not be passed to the L2 ECO Bridge to update its `inflationMultiplier` storage variable. Eventually, the contract's inflation multiplier will increase organically due to successful `rebase` messages passed from L1 to L2. At any point, the malicious actor can replay the original message with a proper gas limit. The message will successfully be passed to `L2ECOBridge.sol` and the `inflationMultiplier` will be overwritten with a value that is lower than the actual current value.

## Vulnerability Detail
***Example:***

- User calls `rebase()` on L1 Bridge while inflationMultiplier = 100 and an `_l2Gas` parameter that is too high to be executed.
- Time passes, inflation multiplier is now 500. Rebase messages have been passed to L2 successfully.
- The attacker can now call `L1CrossDomainMessenger.replayMessage()` with a valid gas limit to push the old message through to the L2 Eco Bridge. The `inflationMultiplier` is overwritted to 100, and now the the attacker can receive more funds via the gons exchange rate.

Per the Optimism [docs](https://community.optimism.io/docs/protocol/protocol-2.0/#l1crossdomainmessenger):

`The L1 Cross Domain Messenger (L1xDM) contract sends messages from L1 to L2, and relays messages from L2 onto L1. In the event that a message sent from L1 to L2 is rejected for exceeding the L2 epoch gas limit, it can be resubmitted via this contract's replay function.`

https://github.com/ethereum-optimism/contracts/blob/df10de974629615b8597ed9bdbcd1b5ec2c0c9b7/contracts/optimistic-ethereum/OVM/bridge/messaging/OVM_L1CrossDomainMessenger.sol#L144-L167

## Impact
- Attacker can reset the L2 bridge's inflation multiplier to any previous lower value to alter the exchange rate for profit.

## Code Snippet
https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2023-05-ecoprotocol/blob/main/op-eco/contracts/bridge/L1ECOBridge.sol#L296-L307

## Tool used

Manual Review

## Recommendation
I recommend altering the `validRebaseMultiplier` modifier. Instead of simply checking for a `_inflationMultiplier` value greater than 0, check that the parameter is larger than the current value in storage.

```solidity
modifier validRebaseMultiplier(uint256 _inflationMutiplier) {
        require(
            _inflationMutiplier > inflationMultiplier,
            "L2ECOBridge: invalid inflation multiplier"
        );
        _;
    }
```
