branch_indigo

high

# L2Rebase Vulnerable to L1 MEV Attack or Sequencer Front-Running Potentially Causing Excessive L2ECO Minting

## Summary
ECO rebase on-chain execution is generally a two-step process. First, L1 bridge initiates rebase with L1 messenger broadcasting the message on mainnet. Second, L2 messenger relay message received from L1 messenger and invoke `rebase` on L2 bridge. 

There are inherent risks in cross-chain communications. The first step is vulnerable to MEV attacks, and the second step could potentially be front run by the sequencer. Since ECO rebase is a central feature of the protocol and has a direct impact on ECO valuation and user balances, extra protection is needed to guard against disruption in token valuations and token transfers during rebasing. 

Current implementation of both `rebase` on L2ECOBridge.sol and `transferFrom` on L2ECO.sol doesn't have any mechanisms to guard against risk as mentioned above. Specifically, during rebase, there is a window of temporary discrepancies in user token balances between L1 and L2 that could be exploited.

## Vulnerability Detail
`rebase` directly changes a scaler(inflationMultiplier) that adjusts token balances. When inflationMultiplier increases, users balance decrease, creating deflationary pressure. When inflationMultiplier decreases, user balance increases, creating inflationary pressure. Based on the sponsor, the scaler value (inflationMultiplier) changes every two weeks and its value is the result of governance voting process as monetary control. 

On mainnet, after new inflation multiplier is set,`rebase` on L1ECOBridge.sol can be called which creates the message to L2ECOBridge to invoke `rebase` on L2ECOBridge.sol. This transaction can potentially be delayed or front ran through MEV attacks. And MEV attacks on L1 can have an impact on the ordering of transactions on L2. In pre-bedrock optimism, transactions are ordered on the order in which they are received, so when exploiter delayed the broadcast sending a message to L2, it is very likely results in the delay of the corresponding transaction on L2. In optimism bedrock, even though a mempool is introduced but because the sequencer remains the sole entity to decide the transaction order, it's very likely that MEV attacks have the same although less direct effect on L2. 

```solidity
//L1ECOBridge.sol-rebase()
        bytes memory message = abi.encodeWithSelector(
            IL2ECOBridge.rebase.selector,
            inflationMultiplier
        );

        sendCrossDomainMessage(l2TokenBridge, _l2Gas, message);
```

On L2, `rebase` on L2ECOBridge.sol would only be invoked by L2Messenger, and it sets the new inflation multiplier both in its storage and on L2ECO token. This transaction can potentially be front ran by the sequencer. Under current Optimism, the sequencer is highly centralized with high centralization risk should it acts maliciously. Under optimism bedrock, there is a mempool and the order of transaction in a block is decided by the sequencer. When a sequencer is down or on the chance that it acts maliciously, it's possible that `rebase` from the L2 bridge could be delayed. In addition, there is also a near-future scenario where the sequencer becomes decentralized, then `rebase` is exposed to similar risks of MEV attack on L1 and be easily front ran by exploiters. 

```solidity
//L2ECOBridge.sol-rebase()
        inflationMultiplier = _inflationMultiplier;
        l2Eco.rebase(_inflationMultiplier);
```
Whenever `rebase` is delayed in being included in the block based on any scenarios above, the exploiter can deposit, finalize the deposit on L2 and traded L2ECO tokens with coins with more stable valuations (stable coins) to hedge against losing L2ECO token balances in the short run due to an inflation multiplier increase. This path is enabled because they are able to realize their token balances instantly after `finalizeDeposit` from L2ECOBridge.sol. 

```solidity
//L2ECOBridge.sol-finalizeDeposit()
        _amount = _amount / inflation multiplier;
        L2ECO(_l2Token).mint(_to, _amount);
```
They can instantly call `transferFrom` on L2ECO.sol to transfer their balance to an AMM for instance to trade for a different token. If they are able to front run L2`rebase`, then `transferFrom` under the hood would transfer their token balance based on the old inflation multiplier through `_beforeTokenTransfer`. When the new inflation multiplier is higher, this allows them to instantly trade with more ECO balances compared to after L2 rebase, gaining profits before a broader monetary controlled deflationary pressure takes hold. 

```solidity
//L2ECO.sol-_beforeTokenTransfer()
        amount = super._beforeTokenTransfer(from, to, amount);
        // overwrite for efficiency
        //gonsAmount is returned and emitted here
        amount = amount * linearInflationMultiplier;
```

[See a test and results here as POC. ](https://gist.github.com/bzpassersby/4e931c537750f9416de1b1d395d2c4d9)

In the test, the exploiter managed to transfer out more L2ECO token balance to trade in comparison with Alice who deposits the same amount but transfers out her token after L2 rebase.

## Impact
The above-mentioned attack creates disruption in ECO monetary control crucial to the protocol's health. When the inflation multiplier increases, the scaled balance decreases creating deflationary pressure. However, though MEV or Sequencer front-running, it's possible that exploiters are able to deposit large amount of ECO tokens to L2 and trade them out instantly before L2 rebase. This potentially causes a larget amount of L2ECO minting in a very short period of time, depending on the scale of the transfer, this could create acute inflationary pressure on L2 in contrary to the intention of the governance monetary control. 

Although such trading could also take place on L1 without L2 depositing, it would be less profitable for exploiters, and also less damaging to ECO valuations due to no minting or burning involved. It's likely users would take advantage of L2 depositing to save on fees , or in the case for users who lose on the first opportunity to trade on L1, L2 would be a desirable path to realize such gains.
## Code Snippet
see above.
[https://github.com/eco-association/op-eco/blob/39f205fb46eea3df770f0119a890ffdc1ac8f382/contracts/bridge/L2ECOBridge.sol#L162](https://github.com/eco-association/op-eco/blob/39f205fb46eea3df770f0119a890ffdc1ac8f382/contracts/bridge/L2ECOBridge.sol#L162)
## Tool used

Manual Review

## Recommendation
Possibly delay minting of L2ECO token in `finalizeDeposit` on L2ECOBridge.sol. So exploiters wouldn't be able to instantly trade on freshly deposited assets with an old inflation multiplier.
