ecexit

high

# eccentricexit - Updates to Inflation Multiplier on L2 can undone by anyone via OOG + replay.

## Summary

The protocol governs governs the inflation multiplier on the `L2EcoBridge` contract via an L1 to L2 message. An adversary can craft a transaction with just enough gas so that when it reaches the L2 it runs out of gas at the proper moment. Then, when favorable, they can replay this message to update the inflation multiplier to an old value.

## Vulnerability Detail

The behavior is as following:

1. The adversary (Alice) calls [L1ECOBridge.rebase()](https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2023-05-ecoprotocol/blob/b440f89234b806f672b9e9ad24cf70c409964db5/op-eco/contracts/bridge/L1ECOBridge.sol#L296-L307). This initiates an L1 to L2 message that will write the current `inflationMultiplier` to `L2EcoBridge.inflationMultiplier`. She passes a large enough `_l2Gas` to the call such that it enters `L2ECOBridge.rebase` function, but small enough that it reverts there due to Out Of Gas (OOG) error:

```solidity
    function rebase(uint256 _inflationMultiplier)
        external
        virtual
        onlyFromCrossDomainAccount(l1TokenBridge)
        validRebaseMultiplier(_inflationMultiplier)
    {
        inflationMultiplier = _inflationMultiplier; // revert due to OOG in this scope;
        l2Eco.rebase(_inflationMultiplier);
        emit RebaseInitiated(_inflationMultiplier);
    }
```

[L2ECOBridge.rebase](https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2023-05-ecoprotocol/blob/b440f89234b806f672b9e9ad24cf70c409964db5/op-eco/contracts/bridge/L2ECOBridge.sol#L175-L177)

3. The call then returns to `L2CrossDomainMessenger.relayMessage`  and it marks that transaction (`tx1`) as `failed`:

```solidity
        ...
        bool success = SafeCall.call(_target, gasleft() - RELAY_RESERVED_GAS, _value, _message);
        xDomainMsgSender = Constants.DEFAULT_L2_SENDER;

        if (success) {
            successfulMessages[versionedHash] = true;
            emit RelayedMessage(versionedHash);
        } else {
            failedMessages[versionedHash] = true; // Tx marked as replayable.
            ...
        }
        ...
```

4. Things continue operating normally. Inflation multiplier is updated L1 ECO token 1 or N times, people call `L1ECOBridge.rebase` with enough gas, keeping the L2 up to date.

5. Alice doesn't like the current inflation multiplier so she sends a transaction to `L2CrossDomainMessenger.relayMessage` to replay her old `tx1` transaction. This time, she provides enough gas such that the execution completes, reverting the inflation multiplier to the old value.

## Impact

An adversary can effectively DoS updates to the inflation multiplier indefinitely and benefit from the broken, inconsistent state.

## Code Snippet

## Tool used

Manual Review

## Recommendation

Disallow in the contract passing a too low `l2Gas` to `L1ECOBridge.rebase`.